A recap then. So far up until now,
we've looked at the relation
between artificial intelligence,
machine learning and deep learning.
So where does generative AI fit
into all of this?
Well, you may have understood this already
because generative AI
is a subset of deep learning.
It uses deep learning neural networks
to understand the training data,
learn from it,
and then generate new content.
The key important word here is generative
or the ability to generate something new.
The existing AI system
that we can call conventional AI systems,
they've operated
in a non generative way up until around
about the period 2018-19.
That is you gave them training data.
The model learned from it
And then it made either predictions
or classified the data into categories.
Ordered language processing
like translations or computer vision,
and identified what an image was.
So you train a machine learning model
on lots of images of,
say for example, apples,
and then ask it to tell you
whether a supplied image
is of an apple or not.
And it can do that for you.
That's what conventional AI does.
That's what conventional AI is trained on
and it's created to operate on.
Now, generative AI, on the other hand,
is entirely different from that.
We give the AI model
lots of training data,
much, much more training data
than we have typically given
to a conversational AI system.
And based on this training data
based on the neural network
that operates behind the scene,
it's able to generate new content,
whether it's text
or image or video or anything.
So if we talk about the same example
that I mentioned earlier,
we train our model this time
a generative AI model
on the same data set of Apple images.
And then we ask you
to generate an image of an apple for us.
Well, it can do that.
It can give us this new image.
Now please note here that this image,
it's not coming
from the millions of images
that this model was trained on.
It's not an extractive task.
It's a generative task.
The the model is generating
a new image of the apple
based on what it has learned
from this training data. And once again,
that is what generative AI is.
You are generating new content
whether it's text,
image, audio, video, using AI.
So I hope you're clear on this now.
But before we look more in depth
in this
eLearning about generative AI
and how it works behind the scenes,
it's a it's applicability
and all those things, I want you
to remember three takeaways
from what you've learned so far:
Firstly, for machines
to be intelligent, to be accurate,
you need to train them on large volumes
of data. And there's a term
that's used in machine learning,
and that's 'Garbage in
is the same as Garbage out'.
So if you feed garbage,
garbage data or bad data to your machine,
to your machine learning model,
obviously it will give bad results,
garbage results.
On the other hand,
if you give it good data,
various variations of data,
huge volumes of data,
you'll obviously get better,
more accurate results.
The second key takeaway
is that we need a lot
of computational power.
We're feeding large volumes
of training data.
We're using neural networks,
which are very complex.
We're expecting quick answers,
almost conversational
when we type in something
into ChatGPT or Copilot or Claude
or whatever generative AI applications
are using. So the computational power
behind the scene has to be massive.
It has to be powerful to be able
to process this data
in a very short amount of time.
And thirdly,
we are seeing a shift in the way
that we interact
with these machine learning models.
Users nowadays, me included.
We don't necessarily
want to type in a query.
We might want to speak in a query,
and instead of getting
15 matching documents or links
and then read through each one,
well, I'd like to have a summary of those.
So in a way,
those days of the traditional tile style
of Google search,
well, they're numbered because we want
conversational interaction ability.
Um, when I say rather, I want
conversational interaction ability
where I can put in a simple question
and I can get a direct answer,
and I should be able to ask onwards
within context.
So, for example,
if I ask what is the capital of Finland
and get the answer Helsinki, which it is,
and then I go ahead and say,
what's the weather like there?
Then the application that I'm using
should understand
that I'm still talking about Helsinki.
And then tell me about the weather there.
It should be able
to understand that context.
It should be able to gather
the information based on what
we've already been discussing,
and then show me that continued result.